good morning
thank you all for being here from my
right let me introduce
who i have with me and then acknowledge
some special friends
to my right is gareth rhodes who
has been he works with the department of
financial services but he's been
working with us in albany during this
coronavirus pandemic to my left melissa
de rosa who's secretary to the governor
to her left
robert mejica who is the state budget
director he doesn't smile much
and nowadays because the state budget is
not in great shape
but when the federal government does the
right thing and gives us funding we
expect that he's going to smile
that big smile again it's a pleasure to
be in rochester with
so many of my friends who have done such
great work for the state former
lieutenant governor bob duffy
who worked with me when we first got
started and
has done great work for the entire state
of new york danny wegman
pleasure to be with you wegmans is a
great new york corporation
and danny's a great civic leader and
they've been very helpful
through this situation also thank you
for allowing us to do the
antibody testing at wegmans
that's been very very helpful and we
thank you for everything you've done
and nicole wegman thank you pleasure
thank you for being on our new york
forward advisory board
to help us going forward and find our
way through this
let's give you an update on where we are
today
the total number of hospitalizations
is down you see that curve
coming down you see that mountain that
we went up
uh now we're on the other side of the
mountain you start to see the shape of
the mountain
unfortunately the decline from the
mountain is not as
steep as the incline right
and the big question for us
in new york and every state across the
nation has been how
fast and how low does that decline go
right how fast does the decline
actually happen and what is the
lowest level that the decline
will reach unfortunately you see that
we were shape we were hoping for a
quick up plateau
at the top which is what they talked
about
but a fast decline you see the decline
is again not as steep as the incline
but it is a decline and that's good news
the net change in total hospitalizations
is
is down that change in intubations is
down
and that's always good news uh when a
person is
intubated roughly 80 percent of the
times
there is not a good outcome so the fact
that the intubations is down
is a good uh is good news
and then the other end is how many new
cases are coming in the door
every day how many new diagnoses in
covit cases
and that number is also declining
so not only are the number of people in
hospitals coming down but the number of
new cases coming in the door
is down and that's good news because it
had
plateaued at about 900 statewide
for a few days but this number is
is down at 700 and that's a good number
i would take this with a grain of salt
as they say because this
is reporting from yesterday which was a
sunday
and sometimes we get different results
on the weekend
remember this whole reporting system
is just been put in place this never
happened before
this is now every hospital in the state
reporting every day for the first time
so it's a plus or minus across the board
this is the number that haunts me every
day
and this number is not declining
anywhere nearly as fast as we would like
to see it decline
still 226
new yorkers who passed away and
so we don't become immune we we talk
about these numbers
it's 226 families right that's 226
wives or brothers or sisters or children
that are now suffering the loss of a
loved one so that we remember them in
our thoughts and our prayers
people are all talking about reopening
which we should
be talking about this is not a
sustainable
situation close down everything close
down the economy
lock yourself in the home you can do it
for a short period of time but you can't
do it forever
but uh reopening
is more difficult than the close down
the close down was relatively simple
right you go into the basement you throw
the big power switch and everything just
goes down
close the businesses stay at home
it was a blunt operation
and when that was done all across the
country just stop everything now
when you go to restart the reopening
uh now knowing what we know it's more
nuanced you have to be more careful and
again no one has
done this before and no one has been
here before
so first start by learning the lessons
that we did learn through this
experience
and second let's be smart about what we
do
and i get the emotion and i get the
impatience and i get the anxiety we all
feel it
when i say the situation is
unsustainable it's unsustainable on many
levels it's unsustainable economically
it's unsustainable personally
a lot of anxiety is now
all through our community we see it in
increased alcoholism increased substance
abuse increased domestic violence
so this is a a very very difficult
period and people want
to move on yes but let's be smart about
what we do and let's learn the lessons
one of the lessons is we have never been
here before
and we didn't really know
what was going on cdc releases a report
end of last week that says the virus was
actually coming to the east coast
from europe everybody was looking at
china for all those months china china
china china yeah china was
last november december the virus
migrated from china while we were all
staring at china and went to europe
and the strain that came to the united
states
came from europe we had people in the
airports
stopping people from china testing
people from china the federal government
did a lot of testing a lot of screening
people getting off planes from china
yeah but meanwhile the people from
europe were walking right past them
and that's where the strain came from
that was infecting this area and that's
what the cdc just learned
last week and this is going back to
february
right on one of the most studied topics
ever
again just learn the lessons
of what happened you now add that piece
of information on the europe trips and
then you see
the number of flights that came from
europe during that time
where they landed and now you it
explains
why you've seen the outbreak in chicago
that you've seen
why you've seen the number of cases in
new york
because yes the flights were landing
here people were coming from italy and
uk and from european countries and
nobody
thought to screen them nobody was on
guard and you add that to the density of
new york especially in new york city
and that virus just took off okay
we didn't know we didn't know now we do
we also can look back in history you
look at that 1918 flu
pandemic that they talk about the places
that
opened too soon saw that flu
come right back and by the way that
flu was not one wave that was three
waves
first wave second wave third wave second
wave was worse
than the first wave and
you see watch the other countries that
went through this before us
right we're not the first one down the
chute there were other countries that
went down before us
you see they wanted to reopen also they
were feeling the pressure on reopening
and you study those cases and you see
that you reopen
too soon or you reopen unintelligently
and you can then have an immediate
backlash
uh and that's not speculation that is
looking at
other countries and look at what what
has happened around
the world and then you talk to the
experts who know listen to what they're
saying
uh dr fauci who i think is one of the
best voices and minds on this dr fauci
has been
through this in in different iterations
he was one of the pioneers on the hiv
virus
and aids and he says we could be
in for a bad fall and a bad winter could
be
why because he doesn't know he's not
sure but could be
for a bad fall or bed winter okay so
put all of this in the in the equation
and then also uh acknowledge and
actualize
that the truth is that nobody knows
what happens next and when it happens
well how can that be that nobody knows
we're so sophisticated we have so much
intelligence we have so many
experts this is the united states of
america how can it be that no one knows
because no one
knows i speak to the best experts
globally globally
and nobody can tell you for sure
now experts we look to experts and we
expect them to know so we push them to
know
answer the question tell me when what's
going to happen in september what's
going to happen in december
sometimes the answer is i don't know
sometimes that's the honest answer
i was talking to my daughters last night
and they said you know
you say at your briefings i don't know
how can you say that first i'm not
really sure they watched my briefings
but
they're right sometimes i say i don't
know
why because i don't know
and if you don't know say you don't know
and i speak again to the best
minds in this country the best minds
around the globe
and they don't know so if you don't know
say you don't know it doesn't mean
you're not smart no reason to get
defensive
i don't know when you know what you
don't know
and admit it it will actually keep you
safe
my daughters don't quite agree with this
yet but i haven't given up on the
concept
know what you don't know know
when you don't know what the future
holds you can be safe because then you
can prepare for different possibilities
and that's where we are we don't know
but we will be prepared for all
possibilities so
reopening chart a course with the best
information you have
learning from the lessons you have but
be able to correct that course
depending on what happens which means
don't act emotionally don't act because
i feel this i feel
that because someone said well other
states are opening so
you must be able to open if other states
are opening if we get the anecdotal
forget the atmospheric forget the
environmental forget the emotional
look at the data look at the
measurements look at the science
follow the facts and that's what we've
done here from day one
this is no gut instinct this
is look at the data look at the science
look at the metrics
move forward measuring
what you can and what you know and then
be
prepared to adjust well i want
specificity i want to know for sure you
don't
but there's liberation in knowing that
so let's do this
intelligently based on metrics
and we'll see what happens and we'll
adjust to whatever happens
well what does that mean on metrics you
can measure
this and we have to measure this you
look at that
percentage and the rate of
hospitalizations
which we have right that's the chart
that goes up and down
you watch that hospitalization rate do
your diagnostic testing
so you know how many people are testing
positive and you can
watch that rate going up or down or
flat do the contract tracing so
after the testing you follow up and you
do that contact
tracing and you are then reducing
the infection spread by isolating the
positives
if you do those things you will
control the rate of transmission of the
virus
which is everything nobody says you're
going to eliminate
the virus in the short term no
body but you can control the rate of
transmission
and if you can control the rate of
transmission you can control the rate of
transmission
from becoming an outbreak or an epidemic
or
overwhelming your public health system
that is the best you can do
so control the rate of transmission to
what they call 1.1 or less
1.1 is every person infects 1.1
other people more than one other person
if you're doing that
that is an outbreak that means it's
going to increase exponentially and it's
going to be out of control
as long as your rate of transmission is
manageable
and low then reopen your businesses
and reopen the businesses in phases
so you're increasing that activity level
while you're watching the rate of
transmission
rate of transmission goes up stop
the reopening close the valve close the
valve right away
so reopen businesses do it in phases
and watch that rate of transmission
it gets over 1.1 stop
everything immediately that's where the
other countries wound up
they started to reopen they exceeded the
1.1
it became an outbreak again they had to
slow down
rather than starting and stopping you'd
rather have a controlled
start so you don't have to stop
right and that's what you learn from the
other countries you reopen too
fast then you have to stop and nobody
wants to have gone through all of this
and then start just to stop again
well how does that happen first of all
it's not going to happen
statewide this state has
different regions which are in much
different situations than other regions
in the state
and rather than wait for the whole state
to be ready
reopen on a regional basis
if upstate has to wait for down state
to be ready they're going to be waiting
a long time
so analyze the situation on a regional
basis
okay and you
look at a region on four measures
the number of new infections your health
care
capacity if the infections goes too high
you overwhelm your health system now
you're italy
with people on gurneys in a hallway
because your hospital system can't
handle it
do your diagnostic testing so you're
seeing
how the infection is increasing or
decreasing
and do the contact tracing have that
system in place
so when you test and you find the
positive you trace the contacts from
that positive person and you're
isolating them to bring down
the rate and you do that on a regional
basis that system has to be
in place for a regional basis
how do you start when can i start
reopening
we look at guidelines from the cdc which
say
a region has to have at least 14 days of
decline in total hospitalizations and
death on a three-day rolling average so
you take a three-day average you have to
have 14 days of decline
you can't have more than 15 new total
cases or
five new deaths on a three-day rolling
average
this is telling you that you're
basically
at a plateau level that you can actually
start to reopen then you're
watching the rate of infection and the
spread of the infection
and the benchmark there is fewer than
two
new covert patients per 100 000
residents
right it's based on your population
to account for the variance in the
different sizes of regions across the
state
then anticipate protect yourself from
all possibilities well what if we have a
surge
again never
fill your hospitals to more than 70
percent
capacity leave 30 percent
in case you have a surge remember this
virus
is tricky the rate of infection
per a person who gets infected today
shows
up in the hospital 10 days from today
or two weeks from today
so that infection rate goes up you don't
feel it for two weeks
there's a lag to it
you want to make sure you have 30
of the hospital beds available in case
you have
that surge also learn the lessons from
before
every hospital has to have 90 days of
ppe
for that hospital at the rate that they
have been using it during covert
we cannot have another mad scramble
where nurses and doctors don't have
gowns and masks
etc because the hospitals don't have
the necessary stockpile so make sure
every hospital
has the stockpile on the testing
we have done
really remarkable work on testing one
million new yorkers have now been tested
believe it or not and
the cdc coronavirus task force for the
white house recommends that for a region
to reopen you have 30 tests
for every 1 000 residents ready to go
so what testing capacity do we need for
a region to reopen
you have to be prepared to do 30 tests
for every 1 000 residents
new york is doing more tests than any
country in the state
by far new york is doing more tests than
any country on the globe
per capita so we're way ahead
in testing but it doesn't matter what
we're doing statewide
to open a region that region has to have
a testing capacity of 30
per 1000 the national guard has been
doing a great job for us
in putting together testing kits and
distributing testing kits
and we want to thank them very much but
we have to have those
tests and we have to have what they call
tracers contact tracers in place
and mayor bloomberg has been very
helpful former mayor of new york city
in putting together this tracing system
this has never existed before
on this scale a group of people
who literally trace contacts from a
person who's positive
who did you have dinner with last night
who did you have dinner with two nights
ago
who might you have been in contact with
and then
contacting those people to say do you
have any symptoms if you do you should
know
you were with uh john smith john smith
tested positive
he said he went to dinner with you you
should be on alert
that old tracing system has never been
done not only in this state but in this
country so this
that all has to be set up and it has to
be done
once that is all done then you can talk
about
reopening businesses well which
businesses do we
open first you open businesses first
that are most essential and pose
the lowest risk okay most essential
and the lowest risk uh
phase one we're talking about
construction manufacturing and select
retail with curbside pickup they are
the most essential with the lowest risk
second phase professional services
retail
administrative support real estate third
phase restaurant food services
accommodation
fourth arts entertainment recreation
education
remember density is not your friend here
large
gatherings are not your friend uh that's
where the virus tends to spread
that's why those situations would be
down
at the end uh and then we need
businesses
to also reimagine how they're going to
do business
and get ready to protect their workforce
to change their physical environment
to the extent they need to and to change
their processes to make sure
people can socially distance people
remain
at a safe uh in a safe environment
and that's going to be up to businesses
to come up with ways to reconfigure
their workplace and their processes
to make this work and that's business by
business
government can say these are the
standards but a business is going to
have to figure out how to do that
when you look at this state there are
some regions that right now
by the numbers pose a lower risk
some that pose a higher risk we can tell
you
by region right now of
those criteria that we went through
which ones are in place for which region
so which ones have the right
hospitalization the right testing
regimen
the right contract contact tracing
and which ones still have work to do in
those areas
and this is going to be region by region
and each region has to put together the
leaders in those respective areas
who put together this system
and monitor this system literally on a
daily basis
so they're getting all that input all
those specifics
all that data and then day by day
they're making a decision as to how to
proceed with reopening
based on the data based
on the facts and that'll be a little
different
for every region in the state may 15th
is when the statewide
pause order p-a-u-s-e
not p-a-w-s uh
the pause order the pause order was stop
all businesses
stay at home that expires on may 15th
may 15th regions can start to
reopen and do their own analysis but
these are the facts that they have to
have in place
to do it start now don't wait to may
15th
don't call me up on may 15th and say
well the pause order expired
i want to open because i'm going to ask
you the questions
i just asked i just presented
do you have a health care system in
place is your health
system ready can your hospitals handle
it do you have testing in place do you
have tracing in place
have you talked to the businesses about
how they're going to reopen
so we have a couple of weeks but the
this is
what uh local leaders this is what a
community has to deal with
to reopen safely and intelligently
in my opinion this can't just be
we want to get out of the house we're
going
no let's be smart let's be intelligent
let's learn from the past let's do it
based on facts you know we are at a
different time and place
government is uh
fundamentally in a different position
than it was
just a couple of months ago this is for
real now
right government politics it's not about
optics it's not about celebrities not
about press releases
it's not about uh what i put on
instagram
yesterday this is about
government leaders performance their
expertise
this is a situation where their
competence
and their ability can be the difference
between life and death
literally and what the governments have
done
federal state local what we've done in
this state
has literally saved lives
we reduced all the projected
hospitalization rates
dramatically by about a hundred thousand
new yorkers one hundred thousand fewer
new yorkers were hospitalized
than they predicted one hundred thousand
think about that
if we had one hundred thousand more
people in our hospital system
first of all our hospital system would
have collapsed
if the projections were true if we
didn't change those projections
and we literally saved lives how many of
those 100
000 would have been hospitalized and
would have died
so we've done great work
at a tremendous cost and tremendous
hardship
but we've done great work we just
have to remain vigilant and smart
and competent going forward and that's
what new york tough means new york tough
means
we're tough but we're smart we're
disciplined we're unified
and we are loving and it's the love of
community and love of each other and
respect for each other
which is what has gotten us through this
and will continue to
thank you very much for taking the time
to be here thank you for the social
distancing questions for myself or any
of my colleagues
mask wearing uh
i said look i believe this is the uh
this is a time for sort of honest
straightforward talk
i said that i think it's disrespectful
of people not to wear masks i mean think
about it
you see all these commercials on tv we
thank you to our heroes thank you to the
nurses thank you to the doctors thank
you to the
transit workers thank you to the police
officers and we should be thankful
right they went to work so all of us
could stay safe and go home
the least gratitude you can
show is at least wear the mask
so you don't infect more people who
place
more of a burden on the hospitals and
the nurses and the doctors who were all
saying thank you
for yours your great service you really
want to say thank you
then respect them and respect their job
and wear the mask
so you don't infect people well i don't
want to wear a mask
it's not that big a deal and by the way
you don't wear a mask
for yourself you wear a mask to protect
me
i wear a mask to protect you
uh we owe each other a certain amount of
reasonableness
and respect in society and i owe
you that level of respect that if i'm
sick
i should wear a mask
local governments have the ability
to enforce and to penalize
that's up to local governments but do i
think local
government should be enforcing it and
should there be sanctions yes
yes because it is a public health
emergency
you know this is not just do me a favor
this is a public health
emergency and it's a statewide order
that i put in place
that i'm proud of and local governments
have the responsibility
to enforce it and part of
their right their legal right is they
can have a penalty
or a sanction that they impose uh so
rochester
can have one penalty you know it can be
appropriate
to the to the community new york city's
in a different situation
but yeah i think local government should
enforce it and i think there should be a
penalty
because you could liter literally kill
someone you could literally kill
someone because you didn't want to wear
a mask
i mean how how cruel and irresponsible
would that be
yes yes
you don't have to worry no one said wear
a mask all the time right
uh wear a mask if
you may be in a situation where you
can't socially distance
you go for a walk in the woods you don't
have to be wearing a mask
you come to a point even for you from
your walk in the woods
where you're going to be in a parking
lot or there's an entrance and an exit
and you
may run into other people wear the mask
you can have the mask down
when you're walking in the woods but now
you see someone coming the other way
i'm going to pass by the other person
you put the mask on
i mean it's
it's the least that we can do
right everyone is killing themselves
people are working 24 hours a day show
some respect
show some basic modicum of
respect
yeah putting putting all of these
new systems in place is an incredible
uh task and you know in society now we
have a
uh temptation to uh blame well
who's to blame who's to blame nobody is
to blame
that we don't have testing capacity for
millions
of americans we've never done this
before our testing system was basically
for the flu
test or strep
or some other blood test when the doctor
would send you to a lab to get a blood
test
we never had a testing system in this
nation that could do this volume
so this whole thing is a scramble and it
was a scramble between the federal
government and the states who's supposed
to do it who's responsible
i had a good meeting with the president
a while back where we sat down and we
said look
the states control the labs we have
about 300 labs in
in new york state we regulate them the
state should be
responsible for what they can do and we
need the federal government to help
where they can
the supply chain issue of reagents
manufacturing etc that is
an international supply chain ironically
so much of this stuff comes from china
it's like incredible on the testing the
reagents the chemicals
as well as the ppe when we were looking
for masks and gowns
everything was in china but the federal
government
has assumed the responsibility of that
international supply chain the reagents
etc
the states sort of take over at the
state line
but that supply has increased and we are
distributing it
and as you saw we're doing more testing
than any other state
or any other country per capita so we're
coming
online very very quickly uh but we still
have more to do
yeah they're going to get guidance on
what the
what plan they need to reopen schools
which is basically the analog
to what a business needs right i want to
reopen my
uh manufacturing company okay
how do you do it and keep people six
feet apart how do you
do it in the cafeteria how do you do it
in the
transport how do you run your business
in a way
that's going to now meet these social
distancing guidelines same thing for a
school
part of the issue for school was just
the
the gatherings in the school you have
25 students in a class how do you put 25
students in a class and they're six feet
apart
i mean look at this space right even
these press conferences
uh you need for 20 people
you need you know a tremendous size room
how
how would you do that in a school how do
you socially distance
students do you need more classrooms
which means they need more teachers how
do you serve lunch
what do you do about the bus how do you
keep fewer students on the bus
so those kinds of details have to be in
the reopening plan they'll get guidance
on that but it's going to be easier said
than done especially for school
because think about it the problem is
the gathering
a school is a gathering
that's what it is
if
what is
yeah look i get the whole liberate
movement
uh there's no reason for a
uh closing of anything just open
everything up
and let everybody go do whatever they
want to do
i get that argument
i hear it i understand it i'm
sympathetic to it
you know everybody wants out i also know
the facts
of what has happened to the places have
who have done
that and what you suggest that
was all those countries that saw saw a
spike in the number of cases right
afterwards
saw a spike in the infection rate sort
of spike in the hospitalization saw a
spike in the number of deaths
and i would like to see as few new
yorkers pass away as possible
so yes people want to get out on the
other hand we want to do it in a
responsible way
and that's the whole question
no 80 and 90 percent of us don't get the
coronavirus
nobody has gotten the coronavirus before
some people say well this is like a flu
yeah it's not like a flu even 80 to 90
percent of us don't get the flu
right but this is a different beast that
we're dealing with
and we learn that the hard way you don't
hear anyone saying anymore
this is like the flu right that was back
in january february
that was before we had uh 18 000 people
in our hospitals in new york
this is not a float let's take one more
yes
um
yeah this is a national problem
we have unemployment systems states run
the unemployment system
in this case we have a lot of federal
benefits that are running through the
unemployment system
the unemployment system was set up with
phone
operators and a website to handle like
thousands
of calls thousands of input
we now have millions of inputs
it has overwhelmed every state
unemployment
website office etc i talked to all the
governors on these conference calls
they're all struggling to deal with a
number of unemployment claims
federal government then just passed a
piece of legislation several weeks ago
that had additional
benefits for people
which then required new sign ups and
then they brought more
people to the websites etcetera we have
hired over 3000 people
to actually run our unemployment
service our website and to handle the
telephones 3 000 people
which is just incredible just for the
unemployment
line and we've made great progress
uh there is still for some people a
delay because you do have to
document and certify that the person is
eligible you know this can't be just
somebody calls up and bob duffy calls
and you say okay and you send them a
check
uh federal law and common sense requires
that you
affirm certain information the good news
is
even if there's a delay on the website
it doesn't cost you any
money when you get the check the check
is from the date of your eligibility
uh even though the website can be a pain
in the neck to deal with
but i'll ask melissa de rosa who has
been overseeing this
if she has an update on the unemployment
site on those people who have pending
status and this is actually very
important and commissioner reardon is
going to do a call later today to brief
out on the latest what we found in the
last several days is that a lot of the
people who are in pending status have
not gone on
and certified their unemployment status
which is a separate process from going
through the application
so you file the application you do the
phone call you process through but then
you have to go
into the website into your account and
certify that you're unemployed and
that's something you have to do
every week by saturday so you can either
do it on your website account or you can
call there's two separate numbers for
unemployment insurance it's 888-581-5812
and for pandemic unemployment insurance
it's 833-324-0366
and you have to do that every single
week and certify that you are still
unemployed and eligible to work and then
they process that information so we sent
out 90 000 emails over the weekend
to a batch of people we identified that
were stuck in that pending status
because of that
and as i said commissioner riordan is
going to be doing a more detailed call
this afternoon to continue to get this
information out to the public
but that is the number one thing that i
would recommend to those people who are
still sitting in pending status
yes priority status and just to
punctuate one other thing the governor
said about
the flu the one big difference between
coronavirus and the flu is that the flu
has a vaccine
so for those people who are still making
that comparison i'd like you to consider
that
but you don't know what on the flu
vaccine on coronavirus you don't know
what percent is going to wind up getting
it
nobody does and the experts don't know
either
well that's not true but yeah let's say
it is true that the overwhelming number
of people who get it don't die
yeah okay yeah that's fine
unless you're the person who dies then
it's not so fine
i'm sorry yeah
yeah the the nursing homes
uh have seen in many ways uh the most
intense
uh issue here and when you think about
where this even started it started in a
nursing home
in washington state of washington
the vulnerable population are senior
citizens people with
comorbidities compromised immune systems
and a nursing home is a aggregation of
those people
and that's how it started and that is
where it is
most dangerous in the nursing homes i
understand that
i understand the nursing home staff has
been doing
doing uh people who staff these nursing
homes have been doing a fantastic job
because it really is very difficult and
we had to put some precautions in place
that are just so
harsh i mean we can't have we said no
visitors to a nursing home
during this entire time i mean just
think how harsh that is
right but all it takes is one person to
walk into that nursing home with the
virus
and then you're off to the races so
we're doing everything we can the
nursing homes are working very hard we
also announced an
investigation with the attorney general
and the department of health to make
sure
the nursing homes are doing what they
need to do many of them are privately
run
but the state can regulate them
they have to notify families etc so
we're doing an investigation on that
but remember the basic premise of the
nursing home the nursing home can only
accept or keep a patient if
if they can provide
adequate care for that patient
if they have a coveted patient or
non-covet patient
but they can't provide adequate care for
that person
it is their obligation to transfer the
person
if they can't find a place to transfer
the person it's their obligation to call
the state department of health and the
state department of health will transfer
the person
we have facilities for
covered nursing home residents
we have some facilities that adjust for
covid
positive nursing home residents
so we have those facilities available
if a nursing home can't care for a covid
resident call the department of health
the department of health
will transfer the patient period
and that responsibility is on the
nursing home
they have to know who they can care for
and who they can't care for
if they can't care for them for any
reason
my staff is out sick i don't have the
ppe i can't quarantine i can't isolate
for whatever reason they have an
obligation to call the state department
of health and say
i have to transfer this person and we
have
existing facilities and beds for them
but the nursing home has to make that
determination and
if they are caring for people or they
have people who they're not
uh suited to care for then they're
violating
the state policy and that's part of what
this
investigation is going to look at so uh
i've said to nursing homes before i say
it again if you cannot
provide adequate care then that person
has no business being in your nursing
home
and we do have facilities and we do have
beds
that can care for nursing home residents
and do it well and do it safely
last point i'd like to make the
today we're talking about what local
government officials have to do what
each region has to do
to be ready may 15th is a possible
reopening
if you're ready this is how you're ready
learning from the lessons
on the science on the facts but this is
a situation
where yes government is first and
foremost
in a position where they have to make
decisions and perform and do it well and
competence matters and professionalism
matters
and will hold government officials
accountable
i want to be held accountable hold
government officials accountable
but we also need local officials we need
our hospital
administrators to be a big part of this
and we need every citizen to be part of
this you know who's going to keep you
safe
you are you are not me
you are by your actions you know who's
going to keep your family safe
your family and you are by being
responsible
and reasonable in this situation and
then you know
how we keep each other safe by our
individual
responsibility and respect by wearing
the mask by maintaining the social
distancing
that's how we get through this everybody
has a role to play here there is no
pointing fingers
nobody's been here before it's no one
else's job
it's all of us together
and that's what has worked so well so
far
we just have to stay at it it's been an
honor to be with you thank you very much